# Monty Hall Problem Simulator

One of my first things that peaked my interest in the field of statistics is the Monty Hall Problem, which I first hear about as a high schooler while watching a YouTube video called "Top 10 Paradoxes!"

This is the paradox- suppose you are given three doors to choose from, one of them with a car behind it (or whatever prize you would like) and the other two with goats behind them. You choose one door, and the host, Monty Hall, selects one of the doors which you did not choose and reveals there is a goat behind it. Now, is it in your best interest to stay with the same door you chose originally, or to choose switch doors to the other door you did not choose and that Monty Hall did not reveal? Intuitively, it may seem that it shouldn't matter, and that there is a 50% chance for either door to have the car. However, it is actually in your best interest to switch doors- there is actually a 2/3 chance that the door which you did not choose and Monty Hall did not reveal has the car, and a 1/3 chance that the door you chose originally has the car.

This paradox was one of my first introductions into the field of Statistics which I am now pursuing a degree, and I still find it interesting to try to come up with new ways to explain to others why the answer to the problem is what it is.

Recently, while reading The Drunkard's Walk: How Randomness Rules Our Lives by Leonard Mlodinow, I stumbled accross the paradox again. Mlodinow explains the paradox, and also tells of its origins from the column "Ask Marilyn" by Marilyn vos Savant. Mlodinow continued to explain how many people, among them very famous statisticians and mathematicians, could not believe the correct answer, and how one in particule didn't believe it until provided a computer simulation that demonstrated the correct answer.

Reading this, I had the idea to create my own simulator to show the results of the Monty Hall Problem, both as a new way I could explain the problem and answer to others and as a way I could practice and improve my Python skills. This repository contains a Jupyter Notebook with the script I created- running it produces a GUI that can be used to simulate the Monty Hall Problem. First you will click randomize, which assings the correct door to a random door. Then, click a door of your choosing. The GUI will then display an incorrect door from one of the ones you did not choose. You will then choose whether to "stay" with door you chose originally, or "switch" to the other door that was not revealed. The GUI will then display whether or not you were correct, and will update the Staying Correct Percentage or Switching Correct Percentage accordingly. Then, click random again, and continue repeating the process. Provided you do this enough times, the Staying Correct Percentage will over time reach approximately 1/3, and the Switching Correct Percentage will over time reach approximately 2/3, the correct answers to the Montey Hall Problem.

I hope you enjoy this project that I worked on, and feel free to check out my other projects! 
